--- PAGE 1 ---
CS001 Foundations of Professional Practice
Semester 2 2026
Year 4 Part A Assessment Notes
Learning Outcomes:
1. Evaluate alternative paths to achieving personal professional career objectives.
2. Illustrate transforming innovation to business ventures.
General Assessment Requirements:
All Bachelor of Networks and Security (BNS) and Bachelor of Software Engineering (BSE) students have to
document their personal and professional development on Mahara using their ePortfolios. Each semester,
students will be provided with focus question(s), which they will answer through documenting their reflections
on the ePortfolios with supporting artefacts. The ePortfolios will be assessed by the mentors and graded
Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory each semester.
Specific Assessment Requirements for Year 4 Part A BNS and BSE students:
Focus Questions: Do I consider myself an exemplary graduate of USP? What professional capabilities do I need
and what professional capabilities do I have?
This assessment requires students to consider the type of job they might be interested in doing after they
graduate. They should identify SFIA skill definitions (both generic and specialist) at level 3 that might be relevant
to the type of job. They should also identify from their experiences in their projects in IEP, consider what
attitudes additional to their SFIA skills they might require to be considered a professional and exemplary USP
graduate. They should provide artifacts as evidence in support of their assessment.
Deliverables:
A discussion (300-500 words) in your ePortfolio summarising your present professional profile and the
professional profile you think you will need so as to find employment after graduation.
Hints:
1. Consider the seven SFIA Levels of Responsibility. Scan the descriptions of the Generic Skills for each
Level and decide which Level is most applicable to you. Most likely you will choose Level 2: Assist (or,
perhaps, Level 3: Apply).
◦ For your chosen Level of Responsibility, select one or more sentences from the SFIA Generic
Skills which describe one or more things that you think you are good at. Also select one or more
sentences which describe something you would like to be good at.
◦ Copy these sentences into your document and then, for each, explain why you chose them.
Support your explanation with evidence, perhaps from your university studies, a part-time job,
or some other activity that you have done or would like to do.
Note: for this part of your document, you might decide to develop on the document you produced in Year 3 Part
A.
2. From the SFIA Specialist Skills (also called Professional Skills) choose one or two that you think you are,
or should be, good at. Decide your Level of Responsibility for the Specialist Skills and provide evidence
from your university studies or elsewhere to support your decision.
3. If the Level of Responsibility of your Generic Skills is not the same as the Level of Responsibility of your
Specialist Skills, briefly explain if, and so how, you think they should be aligned.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Suggested Timelines:
• Work on part A until week 6 of the semester.
• Submit the final version of part A by week 7.
• Note:
◦ This part of the ePortfolio does not require assessment from a mentor.
◦ The criteria in the evaluation sheet (on the next page) can be further used to develop your
ePortfolio.
Evaluation Criteria:
• Is the student's selections of a Level(s) of Responsibility reasonable?
• Does the student's discussion relate to Generic and Specialist Skills at their selected Level(s)?
• Does the student's document demonstrate personalised and relevant critical thinking?
• See additional assessments criteria in Moodle for this ePortfolio.
Possible results:
• Binary: 'Satisfactory' or 'Unsatisfactory'.
◦ where 'not yet adequate' means the student, based on feedback from their mentor, needs to
improve their description of how they might improve their submission.
Expectations:
• A minority of students will not only take the exercise seriously but will fully appreciate its significance.
They will produce thorough and perceptive analyses of their learning style and how it can be improved.
• A majority of students will recognise that the exercise is a useful part of their studies and appreciate the
benefits of completing it. Most will produce adequate deliverables though some will require advice and
the opportunity to modify and re-submit their initial deliverables.
• A minority of students will do either nothing or the minimum they think necessary (which will be
insufficient). They might appreciate the point of the exercise but lack the willpower and/or self-
discipline to focus on the work. It may be impossible to mentor these students and the only course
might be to refer them to the subject coordinator for counselling.

--- PAGE 3 ---
CS001 Foundations of Professional Practice
Student Evaluation Sheet – Year 4 Part A
Student ID: Student Name:
Mentor Name: Date:
Mentors' Assessment
Evaluation Criteria:
• Is the student's selections of a Level(s) of Responsibility reasonable?
• Does the student's discussion relate to Generic and Specialist Skills at their selected Level(s)?
• Does the student's document demonstrate personalised and relevant critical thinking?
Specific Assessment Criteria:
Year 4 Part A Achieved? (yes/no) / Comments
Year 4 Part A
Focus Questions: Do I consider myself an exemplary graduate of USP? What professional capabilities
do I need and what professional capabilities do I have?
Students in Year 4 Part A will be assessed based on the following criteria:
6. Part 1 – Generic Skills against SFIA: Student has identified an appropriate Level of
Responsibility (Level 2: Assist or Level 3: Apply).
7. Student has identified and listed a few relevant Generic Skills they think they are good at
(CURRENT). For each skill identified, the level of responsibility is identified, and evidence from
university studies or elsewhere is provided to support the current skills and the level of
responsibility identified.
8. Student has identified and listed a few relevant Generic Skills they think they should be good
at (FUTURE). For each skill identified, the level of responsibility is identified, and evidence
from university studies or elsewhere is provided to support the level of responsibility
identified.
9. Part 2 – Specialist Skills against SFIA: Student has identified and listed a few relevant Specialist
Skills they think they are good at (CURRENT). For each skill identified, the level of
responsibility is identified, and evidence is provided.
10. Student has identified and listed a few relevant Specialist Skills they think they should be at
(FUTURE). For each skill identified, the level of responsibility is identified, and evidence is
provided.
11. Part 3 – Comparison: Student has provided an explanation in the case when the Level of
Responsibility of the Generic Skills is not the same as the Level of Responsibility of the
Specialist Skills, and how they think they should be aligned.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Overall Assessment:
☐ Satisfactory ☐ Unsatisfactory
Mentor's Comments (if any):