CS400
Industry Experience Project
Semester 2 2026
Assignment #1 – Project Plan
Learning Outcomes:
1. Apply effective communication techniques for written and oral presentations.
2. Adapt professional and ethical behaviour to the ICT profession.
3. Apply project management skills to execute ICT project.
4. Create a functional ICT solution for the complex computing problem.
5. Function effectively as a team member/leader on an ICT Project.
Due Date: Sunday 16th August 2026 @ 11pm (Fiji Standard Time)
Submission:
 Submit a copy of the file through Moodle using the Project Leaders account.
Weight: 15%
Assignment Requirements:
 This assignment is a team exercise and consists of a written report on the project plan and charter.
 The report should present the domain specific research conducted for the client in teams, formulate the
problem, and present the project plan, which includes a budget (if required), resources, main tasks and their
durations, milestones, deliverables, and the main risks associated with the plan.
 The assignment will be assessed by the academic supervisor. Assessment will consider feedback from the client.
 The submitted project plan will be assessed against specific criteria as defined in Appendix A of this document.
Document Template
 There is no specific project plan or team charter template provided for this assignment.
 Teams may use a template provided by the clients or use a template that suits the client organization.
Reference
 Reference all external materials you use.
 For referencing materials provided by the client, pay specific attention to the confidentiality agreement with your
client organization before any disclosure.
Final Document
You should put the following items in one PDF document:
 Cover page [Show the project title, client organization name, group number, student names & ids]
 Project Plan and attached team charter as Appendix.
Submission
 Submit a copy of the file through Moodle using the Project Leaders account.
 Incorrect submissions will result in loss of marks or simply a mark of zero.
LATE SUBMISSION = ZERO (0)
Plagiarism
 No two teams should submit same or similar documents. All such cases will be dealt with severely.
Partial Use of AI Tools
• Students may use AI tools (e.g., Copilot, ChatGPT, or similar) only for specific tasks, such as:
1. Problem Analysis: Generating summaries of articles (to be critically verified and rewritten in your own words).
2. Design of solutions: Brainstorming possible applications of methods to your own research.
3. Suggesting alternative phrasing or improving readability.
• Students must document where AI was used
CS400, USP – Project Plan Page 1 of 4

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Appendix A
Marking Rubric
Project Plan Rubric
Criterion CLO CBOK Beyond expectation [8.0 - 10.0] Meet expectation [5.0 - 7.9] Below Satisfactory [0.0 - 4.9] Score
Timeline 3 IT Project Timeline is clearly presented and is clearly Timeline is clear and meets most of the Timeline is not suitable for the
Management suitable for and meets all the activities activities proposed. activities described. Not clearly
described. presented.
Budget 3 IT Project Budget is comprehensive, clearly explained, Budget is comprehensive, clearly Budget is not clearly explained and it
Management and appropriate for the activities proposed. All explained, and reasonable. Most costs is not appropriate for the activities
costs are justified, relevant and essential. are justified, relevant and essential to proposed. Budget is not
Hardware & this project. comprehensive and reasonable.
Software
Fundamentals
Resources 3 Human Factors All resources are clearly identified, are Most resources are clearly identified, are Resources identified are inappropriate
appropriate and relevant to the project. appropriate and relevant to the project. or insufficient for the scope of the
project.
Feasibility 3 IT Project Project plan is well-established, manageable, There is a logical and thoughtful plan for The plan outlined is unclear, do not
Management appropriate, and comprehensive. manageable execution of the project. follow from project objectives, and/or
do not seem entirely manageable.
Creativity 1,3 Communication The proposed project contains many Project contains some original, The project contains no or few
significantly original, innovative, or creative innovative, or creative aspect(s). original, innovative, or creative
aspect(s). aspect(s).
Presentation 2 Societal Document literature demonstrates Document literature is accomplished in Document literature lacks clarity or
Issues/Legal sophisticated clarity, conciseness, and terms of clarity, conciseness, and conciseness, and contains numerous
Issues/Privacy correctness. Report is well structured and contains only a few errors. Report is errors. Report is poorly structured and
Communication contains appropriate references. adequately structured and contains references are inadequate or missing.
appropriate references.
CS400, USP – Project Plan Page 2 of 4

--- PAGE BREAK ---

IEP Learning Outcomes at SFIA Level 3
Criterion CLO CBOK Beyond expectation [8.0 - 10.0] Meet expectation [5.0 - 7.9] Below Satisfactory [0.0 - 4.9] Score
Problem Analysis 3 Abstraction  Identifies information requirements  Identifies information  Does not identify relevant
and selects what is relevant from the requirements and is selection of information from open
open literature the relevant from the open literature
 Identifies all relevant constraints and literature is not fully evident  Does not identify relevant
requirements and formulates an  Identifies most relevant constraints and requirements
accurate description of the problem constraints and requirements and and is not able to formulate
formulates description of the description of the problem
problem
Design of solution 3, 4 Hardware and  Systematically and routinely adopts  Structured and professionally  Systematic approach to design
Software
a structured and professionally recognized approach to design is not fully evident
Fundamentals
recognized approach to design activity lacks some systematic  Most aspects of creativity are
activity approach lacking
Professional
Expectations  Demonstrates creativity when  Demonstrates some aspects of  Solution to the open ended
proposing possible solutions creativity when proposing problem is not fully evident
Design  Screens alternative solutions possible solutions  Does not show evidence of a
systematically  Screens alternative solutions but systematic approach to
Complex
 Evaluates the feasibility several some systematic approach are screening for solutions
Computing
possible solutions in all relevant absent  Evaluation of feasibility is not
contexts which, as appropriate to  Evaluates the feasibility some evident
the problem, may include: technical, possible solutions in some 
suitability for implementation, relevant contexts which, as
economic, aesthetic, ethical, health appropriate to the problem, may
and safety, societal, environmental include: technical, suitability for
and cultural. implementation, economic,
aesthetic.
Conducts oneself 2 Societal Issues  Demonstrates an understanding of  Demonstrates some  Does not clearly demonstrate
professionally the moral responsibilities of an IT understanding of the moral an understanding of the moral
Ethics
professional including: the need to responsibilities of an IT responsibilities of an IT
self-manage in an orderly and ethical professional including: the need professional including: the
manner to self-manage in an orderly and need to self-manage in an
 Able to balance the wider public ethical manner orderly and ethical manner
CS400, USP – Project Plan Page 3 of 4

--- PAGE BREAK ---

interest with the interests of  Demonstrates some ability to  Does not demonstrate ability
employers and clients balance the wider public interest to balance the wider public
 Upholds standards in the IT with the interests of employers interest with the interests of
profession and clients employers and clients
 Able to identify and justify ethical  Upholds some standards in the IT  Does not demonstrate the
courses of action when confronted profession ability to Uphold standards in
with complex situations that might  Able to identify and justify most the IT profession
arise in the work of an IT ethical courses of action when  Unable to identify and justify
professional confronted with complex most ethical courses of action
situations that might arise in the when confronted with complex
work of an IT professional situations that might arise in
the work of an IT professional
Teamwork 5 IT Governance  Manages own activities with honesty  Manages own activities with  Unable to manage own
and integrity in an orderly manner to honesty and integrity in an activities with honesty and
Teamwork
meet deadlines orderly manner to meet integrity in an orderly manner
concepts/issues
 Contributes constructively to team deadlines most of the time to meet deadlines most of the
decision making, earns the trust and  Contributes constructively to time
confidence of other team members team decision making, earns the  Unable to contribute
 Provides leadership in a team trust and confidence of other constructively to team decision
environment by making informed team members most of the time making, earns the trust and
decisions, keeping the team  Provides leadership in a team confidence of other team
motivated and accepting and environment by making informed members most of the time
delegating responsibility (where decisions, keeping the team  Is not able to provide effective
applicable) motivated and accepting and leadership and hence the team
delegating responsibility most of is affected (where applicable)
the time (applicable)
CS400, USP – Project Plan Page 4 of 4
